\input texinfo
@setfilename hafrorep.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@afourpaper
@paragraphindent 0
@set VERSION 3.2
@set DATE (2015-07-05)
@c @set REVISED Revised manual (2015-04-20)
@set YEARS 2014, 2015
@macro hafrorep
@code{hafrorep}
@end macro
@macro pkg{name}
@sansserif{\name\}
@end macro

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} @value{YEARS} Árni Magnússon & Sigurður Þór Jónsson
@sp
@hafrorep{} is released under the @LaTeX{} Project Public License.@*
Source code: @uref{http://www.hafro.is/~arnima/hafrorep/hafrorep.cls}
@end copying

@titlepage
@title hafrorep
@subtitle A @LaTeX{} Class for Hafro Reports
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION} @value{DATE}
@c @subtitle @value{REVISED}
@author Árni Magnússon & Sigurður Þór Jónsson
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@chapter Introduction

@section Background

Between 2003 and 2013, the annual stock assessment report ``Ástandsskýrslan''
(State of Marine Stocks in Icelandic Waters) was typeset in a 2-column format
using Publisher. The table section was typeset in Word.
@sp 0.5

Overall, these MS Office tools proved inadequate for the job. Publisher tables
were composite objects that broke when a new year was added, and were difficult
to reassemble. The position of the header and page numbers tended to shift
between pages. Instead of global document-wide settings, the typesetting
approach in Publisher involved manually formatting a single object, paragraph,
page, or chapter. The same shortcomings applied to the table section typeset in
Word. The tables in Publisher and Word were difficult to modify, resulting in
unexpected changes to the format. In the end, the table section in Word had
become increasingly fragile, to the point that the document could not be opened,
modified, and saved reliably.
@sp 0.5

In the spring and summer of 2014, experiments with typesetting Ástandsskýrslan
in @LaTeX{} were undertaken by Árni Magnússon (assessment section, @LaTeX{}
class) and Sigurður Þór Jónsson (table section, Sweave). The main findings were:
@sp 0.5

@itemize

@item @LaTeX{} can mimic exactly the MS Office report format, both the overall
2-column layout and details like boxes and shades. This was the thrust of
@hafrorep{} version 1 which demonstrated the flexibility of @LaTeX, and provided
an option to switch from MS Office to @LaTeX{} without debating potential
changes to the report format.
@sp 0.5

@item However, @hafrorep{} version 1 also demonstrated that the 2-column layout
is cumbersome to work with. Specifically when it comes to placement of figures
and tables between and within paragraphs, fine-tuning vertical space to align
columns, and constructing tables whose width is predefined to match the column
width.

@end itemize
@sp 1.5

@section Design

The current design of @hafrorep{} aims to make the writing of Ástandsskýrslan as
easy as possible, both for chapter authors and editors, while retaining the high
quality and recognizable style of the report series. This is achieved by
adopting a 1-column layout, which greatly simplifies the typesetting, but
affects the layout in several ways.
@sp 0.5

An established rule in typography dictates that an average line of text should
be around 65 characters in books, and 75 characters in articles. Reports typeset
in a 1-column layout tend to have longer lines, around 85 characters. To avoid
even longer lines, the solution is to use a relatively large font and wide
horizontal margins.
@sp 0.5

Most of the in-text tables and figures span roughly half the text width, with
the caption on the side. Wider tables and figures are also supported, with the
caption above the table and below the figure. Automatic @LaTeX{} algorithms are
utilized for the placement of tables and figures.
@sp 0.5

Compared to the 2-column layout of MS Office and @hafrorep{} version 1, the
output has larger text and a greater amount of white space. As a result, the
report fills a larger number of pages, which is a drawback considering paper
use. This drawback, however, is more than offset by a number of important
benefits.

@page

@section Benefits

@enumerate

@item Placement of tables and figures within each section, as well as the
stretching of vertical spaces, is automated to a large degree. This used to be a
time-consuming and frustrating process.
@sp 0.5

@item Document-wide settings apply uniformly across the entire report, resulting
in fewer @w{discrepancies} between objects, paragraphs, pages, and chapters.
@sp 0.5

@item Cross-references to table and figure numbers are automated within the
section.
@sp 0.5

@item Tables are much easier to update between years.
@sp 0.5

@item The table section corresponds to CSV (comma-separated values) files, which
are archived and made available on @uref{http://data.hafro.is} after the report
is published. From there, they can be read directly into statistical software
for analysis. This is particularly useful for retrospective and literate data
analysis. It also makes it easier for anyone (ministry, stakeholders, media,
analysts, etc.)@: to access stock assessment data and results, providing more
open access of public information.
@sp 0.5

@item Since @LaTeX{} uses text files, it is possible to track changes, undo, and
backup using revision control. Files can be searched and compared using standard
tools.
@sp 0.5

@item The compilation process is automated with scripts. The pathway from
changing a sentence to creating a PDF of the entire report is now faster and
less error-prone than the Publisher-Word-Acrobat tool chain, where 40 documents
were opened manually and exported to postscript files, which were then manually
dragged in the desired order.
@sp 0.5

@item Stock assessment scientists tend to use text files in their work, so
@hafrorep{} and CSV data files integrate the writing of Ástandsskýrslan with the
assessment workflow.
@sp 0.5

@item @LaTeX{} can be converted to other markup formats, such as HTML. It would
require sub@-stantial work to produce clean and high-quality webpages
(especially for the first time), but switching from MS Office to @LaTeX{} would
be a significant step in that direction.
@sp 0.5

@end enumerate

The design of @hafrorep{} focuses on the requirements of Ástandsskýrslan, but
authors of other documents in the Hafró report series may find it useful as
well.
@sp 1.5

@section Usage

The @hafrorep{} class is used in the same way as @code{article}, @code{report},
and other standard @LaTeX{} classes. Please note that:
@sp 0.5

@itemize

@item The @file{hafrorep.cls} must be in the same directory as the document, or
made available to @LaTeX{} in some other way.
@sp 0.5

@item The document must be ASCII or UTF-8 encoded (not Latin-1).
@sp 0.5

@item The degree character (°) is allowed in documents, but the en dash
character (--) and curly right single quote (') are not. Use two hyphens (-{}-)
and plain apostrophe
@codequoteundirected on
(@code{'})
@codequoteundirected off
instead.
@sp 0.5

@item External files are organized in three subdirectories: @file{abs}
(abstracts), @file{figs} (figures), and @file{tabs} (tables).
@sp 0.5

@item Several @LaTeX{} packages are required (@pxref{dependencies,,Class
dependencies}).
@sp 0.5

@item The document can be compiled with the @command{pdflatex} shell command.

@end itemize
@sp 1.5

@page

@section Examples

The best way to learn how to use @hafrorep{} is to experiment with examples.
Three examples have been prepared for this purpose:
@sp

@b{I -- hello.tex}

A minimal @hafrorep{} document.
@sp 0.5

@example
\documentclass@{hafrorep@}
\begin@{document@}
Hello world.
\end@{document@}
@end example
@sp 1.2

@b{II -- sael.tex}

Icelandic text, UTF-8 encoded.
@sp 1.5

@b{III -- ufsi_2015 [directory]}
@sp 0.2

Full-featured example from Ástandsskýrslan 2015.
@sp 1.5

The examples are available on the SVN repository,
@sp 0.2

@example
svn export svn://svn.hafro.is/verk/hafrorep
@end example
@sp 0.2

and on the homepage:
@sp 0.2

@example
@uref{http://www.hafro.is/~arnima/hafrorep}
@end example
@sp

@chapter Options

@section english

@defopt english
Use English grammar rules to split words between lines.@*
Example:
@example
\documentclass[english]@{hafrorep@}
\begin@{document@}
A version of the Work that has been processed into a form where it is
directly usable on a computer system. This processing may include using
installation facilities provided by the Work, transformations of the
Work, copying of components of the Work, or other activities. Note that
modification of any installation facilities provided by the Work
constitutes modification of the Work.
\end@{document@}
@end example
@end defopt


@chapter Large objects

@section banner

@deffn Command \banner
Automatic banner with section number and Icelandic species name.@*
Example:
@example
\banner
@end example
@end deffn
@sp0.5

@deffn Command \bannerenglish
Automatic banner with section number and English species name.@*
Example:
@example
\bannerenglish
@end example
@end deffn
@sp0.5

@deffn Command \bannerx prefix icelandic foreign
Banner with a @var{prefix}, followed by the title in
@var{icelandic} and a @var{foreign} language.@*
Example:
@example
\bannerx\thesection\speciesIS\speciesLA
@end example
@end deffn
@sp0.5

@deffn Command \bigbanner top middle bottom
Banner with three centered lines of text: @var{top}, @var{middle}, and
@var{bottom}.@*
Example:
@example
\bigbanner
@{Ágrip af skýrslu Hafrannsóknastofnunar@}
@{um nytjastofna sjávar 2012/2013 og@}
@{aflahorfur fiskveiðiárið 2013/2014@}
@end example
@end deffn

@section painting

@deffn Command \painting file width xypos
Image @var{file} from inside the @file{figs} directory, stretched to @var{width}
and placed at @var{xypos}.@*
Example:
@example
\painting@{ufsi@}@{4.3cm@}@{12.4cm,4.7cm@}
@end example
@end deffn
@sp 1.5

@page

@section figmap

@deffn Command \figmap file position icelandic english
Figure showing a map image @var{file} from inside the @file{figs} directory,
placed at a given @var{position}, with a caption in @var{icelandic} and
@var{english}.@*
Example:
@example
\figmap@{aflamynd_2012_3@}@{htbp@}
@{Veiðisvæði við Ísland árið 2012.@}
@{Fishing grounds in 2012.@}
@end example
@end deffn
@sp 0.5

@deffn Command \figmapx file position boldIS normIS boldEN normEN
Like @code{\figmap}, except Icelandic caption is passed as @var{boldIS} and
@var{normIS}, and English caption as @var{boldEN} and @var{normEN}.@*
Example:
@example
\figmapx@{aflamynd_2012_11_efri@}@{htbp@}
@{Úthafskarfi, efri stofn.@}
@{Veiðisvæði íslenskra skipa árin 2001–-2012.@}
@{Shallow pelagic redfish.@}
@{Fishing grounds of the Icelandic fleet in 2001-–2012.@}
@end example
@end deffn

@section fignum

@deffn Command \fignum file label position icelandic english
Figure showing an image @var{file} from inside the @file{figs} directory, tagged
with a @var{label}, placed at a given @var{position}, with a caption in
@var{icelandic} and @var{english} on the side of the figure.@*
Example:
@example
\fignum@{ufsi_catch@}@{fig:landings@}@{htbp@}
@{Landaður afli eftir veiðarfærum.@}
@{Landings by gear type.@}
@end example
@end deffn
@sp 0.5

@deffn Command \fignumx file label position boldIS normIS boldEN normEN
Like @code{\fignum}, except Icelandic caption is passed as @var{boldIS} and
@var{normIS}, and English caption as @var{boldEN} and @var{normEN}.@*
Example:
@example
\fignumx@{atumagn@}@{fig:plankton@}@{htbp@}
@{$\!\!$@}
@{Átumagn (g þurrvigt m\super@{--2@}, 0-–50 m) að vorlagi.@}
@{$\!\!$@}
@{Zooplankton biomass (g dry weight m\super@{--2@}, 0–-50 m) in spring.@}
@end example
@end deffn
@sp 1.5

@page

@section figcenter

@deffn Command \figcenter file label pos figwidth capwidth icelandic english
Centered figure showing an image @var{file} from inside the @file{figs}
directory, tagged with a @var{label}, placed at a given @var{pos}, a size of
@var{figwidth} and @var{capwidth}, with a caption in @var{icelandic} and
@var{english} below the figure.@*
Example:
@example
\figcenter@{raekja_grunn@}@{fig:inshore@}@{htbp@}
@{\textwidth@}@{0.95\textwidth@}
@{Afli (lína) og vísitala stofnstærðar (súlur) á grunnslóð.@}
@{Inshore catch (line) and biomass indices (columns).@}
@end example
@end deffn
@sp 0.5

@deffn Command \figcenterx file lab pos fwidth cwidth bIS nIS bEN nEN
Like @code{\figcenter}, except Icelandic caption is passed as @var{bIS} and
@var{nIS} (bold and normal), and English caption as @var{bEN} and @var{nEN}.@*
Example:
@example
\figcenterx@{signlunes50ts@}@{fig:salinity@}@{htbp@}
@{0.8\textwidth@}@{0.75\textwidth@}
@{$\!\!$@}
@{Hiti og selta að vori á 50 m dýpi á stöð 3.@}
@{$\!\!$@}
@{Temperature and salinity in spring at 50 m depth at station 3.@}
@end example
@end deffn

@chapter Small macros

@section Section

@deffn Command \chapter
Chapter heading, not inside a banner.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \chapterx
Chapter heading, not inside a banner and not numbered.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \abstracts
Insert abstracts into document (@file{is.tex} and @file{en.tex} inside
subdirectory @file{tabs}).
@end deffn

@deffn Command \hafrochapter number icelandic english page
TOC entry for chapter @var{number} with an @var{icelandic} and @var{english}
title, and a @var{page} number.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \hafrochapterm number title page
TOC entry for chapter @var{number} with a @var{title} and a @var{page} number,
in medium font weight.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \hafrochapterx number title page
TOC entry for chapter @var{number} with a @var{title} and a @var{page} number.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \hafrosection number icelandic english page
TOC entry for section @var{number} with an @var{icelandic} and @var{english}
title, and a @var{page} number.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \hafrosectionx number title page
TOC entry for section @var{number} with a @var{title} and a @var{page} number.
@end deffn
@sp 1.5

@section Table
@anchor{tabcommands}

@deffn Command \h
Shorthand for @code{\hspace}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \I height
Establish @var{height} to increase vertical space above.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \m
Shorthand for @code{\multicolumn}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mc label
Centered column @var{label}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mci label
Centered italic column @var{label}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mcI label
Centered column @var{label} followed by a vertical line.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mciI label
Centered italic column @var{label} followed by a vertical line.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \ml label
Left-aligned column @var{label}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mli label
Left-aligned italic column @var{label}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mlI label
Left-aligned column @var{label} followed by a vertical line.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \mliI label
Left-aligned italic column @var{label} followed by a vertical line.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \p
Shorthand for @code{\phantom}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \s
Shorthand for @code{\super}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \tabsection
Table section number.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \pathstamp url1 [url2]
Stamp URL(s) at the bottom of the page.
@end deffn

@sp 1.5

@section Character

@deffn Command \b
Boldface.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \i
Italic.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \f number
Footnote @var{number}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \super text
Superscript @var{text}.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \superi text
Superscript @var{text} with alternative kerning.
@end deffn

@deffn Command \sub text
Subscript @var{text}.
@end deffn

@chapter User guidelines

@section Species name

The species name is defined in the preamble of each section in three languages
(Icelandic, English, and Latin), using the macros @code{\speciesIS},
@code{\speciesEN}, and @code{\speciesLA}.@*
Example:
@example
\renewcommand\speciesIS@{Ufsi@}
\renewcommand\speciesEN@{Saithe@}
\renewcommand\speciesLA@{Pollachius virens@}
@end example
@sp 0.2

These macros are used internally by @hafrorep{} to produce banners and figure
captions. They are also used manually to produce table captions.
@sp 2

@section Cross-references

Table and figure numbers inside each section are cross-referenced using the
@code{\ref@{}@var{label}@code{@}} command, which automatically produces the
correct table and figure number.@*
Example:
@example
tafla \ref@{tab:advice@}    =>   tafla  2.3.1
mynd \ref@{fig:landings@}   =>   mynd   2.3.1
@end example
@sp 0.5

Table numbers from the table section, on the other hand, are cross-referenced
using the @code{\tabsection} command, which produces the correct prefix, but the
author must specify the correct table number.@*
Example:
@example
tafla \tabsection.1       =>   tafla  3.3.1
@end example
@sp 2

@page

@section Constructing a table

When constructing a table in a document, the following guidelines apply:
@sp 0.5

@enumerate

@item If the table can be made narrow, it saves space in the report to put the
caption on the side, instead of above the table. To make the table narrow
enough, adjust @code{\tabcolsep} until the table caption width is equal to
figure captions.
@sp 0.5

@item All tables within a chapter are typeset using the @code{\floatbox} command
from the @pkg{floatrow} package. It has the following form:
@example
\floatbox[\capbeside]@{table@}[\FBwidth]
@{\caption@{...@}\label@{...@}@}
@{\begin@{tabular@}...\end@{tabular@}@}
@end example
for a side caption, or replacing @code{\capbeside} with @code{\captop} for a top
caption.
@sp 0.5

@item When numeric columns contain entries of unequal length, they are
left-aligned or right-aligned, but at the same time also shifted by a fixed
indentation so the numbers end up close the center of the column. This
indentation (within columns) is specified using directives like
@code{<@{\hspace@{}@var{length}@code{@}@}} that are provided by the @pkg{array}
package.
@sp 0.5

@item Column labels are specified with @code{\mc}, @code{\mci}, and other
shorthand notations (@pxref{tabcommands,,table macros}), where @samp{c} means
centered, @samp{l} means left-aligned, @samp{i} means italic, and @samp{I}
produces a vertical line.
@sp 0.5

@item Vertical space is controlled using the @code{\I@{}@var{length}@code{@}}
command for the space above a given row, and the @code{\\[}@var{length}@code{]}
command for the space below.
@sp 0.5

@item Footnote numbers can be formatted using the shorthand command @code{\f}.

@end enumerate
@sp 0.5

It is challenging to construct a table for the first time, but very easy to
update a table from a previous report (modify the numbers or add one more line).
@sp 1.5

@chapter Acknowledgements

Þorsteinn Sigurðsson and Birkir Bárðarson have grumbled about the shortcomings
of MS Office for typesetting Ástandsskýrslan over the years. Their detailed
criticism served as the initial blueprint for @hafrorep.
@sp 0.5

Gunnar Gunnarsson (at Orkuveita Reykjavíkur) evaluated @hafrorep{} 1.1 and made
valuable suggestions that led to version 2.0.
@sp 0.5

Kristján Kristinsson provided the solution to format enumerated lists with
minimal vertical spacing, incorporated in version 2.12.
@sp 0.5

Birkir Bárðarson reported a bug in the table of contents dots, fixed in version
2.14.

@appendix Dependencies
@anchor{dependencies}
@sp 0.5

The @hafrorep{} class requires the following @LaTeX{} packages:
@sp 1.5

@b{Character}
@itemize
@item @pkg{babel}
@item @pkg{inputenc}
@item @pkg{fontenc}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Page}
@itemize
@item @pkg{geometry}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Header and footer}
@itemize
@item @pkg{color}
@item @pkg{fancyhdr}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Table of contents}
@itemize
@item @pkg{tocloft}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Section}
@itemize
@item @pkg{tikz}
@item @pkg{titlesec}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Paragraph}
@itemize
@item @pkg{multicol}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{List}
@itemize
@item @pkg{enumitem}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Table}
@itemize
@item @pkg{array}
@item @pkg{rotating}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Figure}
@itemize
@item @pkg{graphicx}
@item @pkg{textpos}
@end itemize
@sp 1.2

@b{Caption}
@itemize
@item @pkg{caption}
@item @pkg{floatrow}
@end itemize

@appendix Release history

@heading{Version 3.2}
@slanted{5 July 2015}
@itemize

@item New document option @option{[english]}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 3.1}
@slanted{4 July 2015}
@itemize

@item Equal spacing between dots in table of contents.

@item New commands: @code{\bannerenglish}, @code{\hafrochapterm},
@code{\hafrosectionx}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 3.0}
@slanted{16 June 2015}
@itemize

@item @code{\abstracts} clears floats before inserting the abstracts.

@item @code{\banner} takes zero arguments, breaking backward compatibility.

@item @code{\pathstamp} inserts blank lines before and after the textblock, to
prevent warnings.

@item Page numbers in table of contents are never bold.

@item New commands: @code{\bannerx}, @code{\s}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.14}
@slanted{10 June 2015}
@itemize

@item Dots in table of contents are slanted, and not bold.

@item New command: @code{\pathstamp}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.13}
@slanted{9 June 2015}
@itemize

@item Table of contents uses slanted letters.

@item Depends on package @pkg{multicol}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.12}
@slanted{7 June 2015}
@itemize

@item French spacing used everywhere.

@item Enumerated lists with minimal vertical spacing.

@item New commands: @code{\abstracts}, @code{\h}, @code{\hafrochapter},
@code{\hafrochapterx}, @code{\hafrosection}, @code{\p}.

@item Removed command: @code{\u}.

@item Depends on packages @pkg{enumitem}, @pkg{rotating}, @pkg{tocloft}.

@item Does not depend on package @pkg{ulem}.

@end itemize
@sp

@page

@heading{Version 2.11}
@slanted{22 April 2015}
@itemize

@item En dash character (U+2013) and curly right single quote (U+2019) in
document give error messages.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.10}
@slanted{20 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Default caption format is @samp{tabcap}, to simplify table input files.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.9}
@slanted{18 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Degree symbol can be used in @LaTeX@ input file, without special commands.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.8}
@slanted{18 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Tables can have caption on the side.

@item All floats support the @option{[H]} placement option.

@item Depends on package @pkg{floatrow}.

@item Does not depend on packages @pkg{float}, @pkg{sidecap}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.7}
@slanted{15 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Does not depend on package @pkg{subscript}, which is unavailable for
MiK@TeX.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.6}
@slanted{12 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Depends on package @pkg{subscript}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.5}
@slanted{12 April 2015}
@itemize

@item New command: @code{\superi}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.4}
@slanted{10 April 2015}
@itemize

@item Top banner is boxed and shaded.

@item New commands: @code{\bigbanner}, @code{\chapter}, @code{\chapterx},
@code{\figcenter}, @code{\figcenterx}, @code{\figmapx}, @code{\fignumx}.

@item Depends on packages @pkg{float}, @pkg{tikz}.

@end itemize
@sp

@page

@heading{Version 2.3}
@slanted{26 September 2014}
@itemize

@item Increased horizontal margins.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.2}
@slanted{22 September 2014}
@itemize

@item New command: @code{\sub}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 2.1}
@slanted{13 September 2014}
@itemize

@item Increased top margin.

@item French spacing in figure captions.

@end itemize

@heading{Version 2.0}
@slanted{12 September 2014}
@itemize

@item Everything simplified, not backward compatible with version 1.

@item 1-column layout, Computer Modern 11 pt font.

@item Tables and figures float automatically.

@item Top banner is plain (not boxed, not shaded).

@item Tables are plain (not boxed, no fixed width, no background color).

@item Figures are plain (not boxed, not shaded), caption is beside the figure,
and vertical spacing is automatic.

@item New commands: @code{\m}, @code{\mci}, @code{\mciI}, @code{\ml},
@code{\mli}, @code{\mlI}, @code{\mliI}, @code{\speciesIS}, @code{\speciesEN},
@code{\speciesLA}.

@item Removed commands: @code{\pause}, @code{\newcolumn}, @code{\mIc},
@code{\mIcI}, @code{\mIlI}.

@item Depends on packages @pkg{array}, @pkg{caption}, @pkg{color},
@pkg{sidecap}, @pkg{titlesec}.

@item Does not depend on packages @pkg{indentfirst}, @pkg{multicol},
@pkg{tabularx}, @pkg{tikz}, @pkg{txfonts}, @pkg{xcolor}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 1.1}
@slanted{12 September 2014}
@itemize

@item New command @code{\u}.

@item Depends on package @pkg{ulem}.

@end itemize
@sp

@heading{Version 1.0}
@slanted{12 June 2014}
@itemize

@item Initial release, mimics the previous 2-column layout exactly.

@end itemize

@bye
